DynusTparser/README.md, before:

## DynusT parser

Inputs: `output_vehicle.dat.bz2`, `VehTrajectory.dat.bz2`,
`links.csv`; optional input: `elecIDs.txt`.  Outputs: `linkVMT.csv`,
`linkData.csv`, and `numberOfTrips.csv`.

### Requirements
1. `csv.h` from
   [https://github.com/ben-strasser/fast-cpp-csv-parser](https://github.com/ben-strasser/fast-cpp-csv-parser)
   placed into the source code directory.
2. Libboost `system`, `filesystem` and `iostreams`.  On a
   Debian-derived Linux distribution:
```bash
$ sudo apt install libboost-system-dev libboost-iostreams-dev libboost-filesystem-dev
```
3. GNU C++ compiler.  If you would like to use a different compiler,
   modify the first line of the `Makefile`.  Some of the compatibility
   flags may need to be modified as well.

### Compilation
```bash
$ make
```
should yield an executable `volumes.exe`

### Input preparation
1. Make a working directory and copy DynusT's outputs
   `VehTrajectory.dat` and `output_vehicle.dat` into it.
   Compress with bzip2.
2. Prepare `links.csv` with a row for each link in the network with
   column names: "linkID","roadTypeID","fips","length","speedLimit"
   and place it into the working directory.  The columns:
   - "linkID" is composed from the IDs of the origin and destination
	  nodes separated by a dash, e.g. "2342-5673".
   - "roadTypeID" is the EPA MOVES road type: you will need to develop
      a mapping from the DynusT road types to the MOVES road types
      (more about this mapping in the `EmissionsCalculator` README.
   - "fips" is the 5 digit county identifier into which most of the
	  link happens to fall.
   - "length" is in miles.
   - "speedLimit" is in mph.
3. Optionally, one may prepare `elecIDs.txt` which contains the list
of vehicle IDs (one per line) to be removed from the DynusT roster
before computing the aggregate link VMT.

### Running the parser

The parser requires two command line arguments: the first one is
`aggInt`, the length (in minutes) of the time interval to aggregate
volumes into.  The output will contain intervalIDs starting from 1 and
ending with `1440/aggInt`.  The second command line argument is
`speedBin` which is the size of the speed bins in mph.  The highest
possible speed is 80 mph.  Therefore, if, for example `speedBin = 5`,
there will be 16 speed bins from 1 to 16 (inclusive).  In the below
example, VMT is aggregated into hour intervals and 5 mph speed bins.
The program must be run while in the working directory.  In the
example below the program `volumes.exe` is located in the parent
directory.
```bash
$ cd ProjectDirectory
$ ../volumes.exe 60 5
```

### Outputs

The program `volumes.exe` will output two comma separated value files.
1. `linkVMT.csv` with columns:
   linkID,vehType,timeIntervalID,avgSpeedBinID,vmt
2. `linkData.csv` with columns: linkID,vehType,metric,unit,value
   contains link metrics that are aggregated over the whole DynusT
   simulation time window.  Metrics include: VMT, delay, signalDelay,
   and toll (if present in `VehTrajectory.dat`).  All metrics are
   available by vehicle type.
3. `numberOfTrips.csv` contains the total number of trips in the
   roster by vehicle type, after the trips with IDs in the
   `elecIDs.txt` have been removed.

Commit message:

updated readme to include the makeLinks.py script

DynusTparser/README.md, after:

## DynusT parser

Inputs: `output_vehicle.dat.bz2`, `VehTrajectory.dat.bz2`,
`links.csv`; optional input: `elecIDs.txt`.  Outputs: `linkVMT.csv`,
`linkData.csv`, and `numberOfTrips.csv`.

### Requirements
1. `csv.h` from
   [https://github.com/ben-strasser/fast-cpp-csv-parser](https://github.com/ben-strasser/fast-cpp-csv-parser)
   placed into the source code directory.
2. Libboost `system`, `filesystem` and `iostreams`.  On a
   Debian-derived Linux distribution:
```bash
$ sudo apt install libboost-system-dev libboost-iostreams-dev libboost-filesystem-dev
```
3. GNU C++ compiler.  If you would like to use a different compiler,
   modify the first line of the `Makefile`.  Some of the compatibility
   flags may need to be modified as well.

### Compilation
```bash
$ make
```
should yield an executable `volumes.exe`

### Input preparation
1. Make a working directory and copy DynusT's outputs
   `VehTrajectory.dat` and `output_vehicle.dat` into it.
   Compress with bzip2.
2. Prepare `links.csv` with a row for each link in the network with
   column names: "linkID","roadTypeID","fips","length","speedLimit"
   and place it into the working directory.  The columns:
   - "linkID" is composed from the IDs of the origin and destination
	  nodes separated by a dash, e.g. "2342-5673".
   - "roadTypeID" is the EPA MOVES road type: you will need to develop
      a mapping from the DynusT road types to the MOVES road types
      (more about this mapping in the `EmissionsCalculator` README.
   - "fips" is the 5 digit county identifier into which most of the
	  link happens to fall.
   - "length" is in miles.
   - "speedLimit" is in mph.
   This repository contains a python3 script `makeLinks.py` which can
   be used to transform the DynaStudio links `shapefile` into the
   `csv` needed by the parser.  To use this script first install
   geopandas
   ```bash
   $ pip3 install -r requirements.txt
   ```
   and then run
   ```bash
   $ python3 makeLinks.py pathToShapeFile
   ```
3. Optionally, one may prepare `elecIDs.txt` containing a list of
vehicle IDs (one per line) to be removed from the DynusT roster before
computing the aggregate link VMT.

### Running the parser

The parser requires two command line arguments: the first one is
`aggInt`, the length (in minutes) of the time interval to aggregate
volumes into.  The output will contain intervalIDs starting from 1 and
ending with `1440/aggInt`.  The second command line argument is
`speedBin` which is the size of the speed bins in mph.  The highest
possible speed is 80 mph.  Therefore, if, for example `speedBin = 5`,
there will be 16 speed bins from 1 to 16 (inclusive).  In the below
example, VMT is aggregated into hour intervals and 5 mph speed bins.
The program must be run while in the working directory.  In the
example below the program `volumes.exe` is located in the parent
directory.
```bash
$ cd ProjectDirectory
$ ../volumes.exe 60 5
```

### Outputs

The program `volumes.exe` will output two comma separated value files.
1. `linkVMT.csv` with columns:
   linkID,vehType,timeIntervalID,avgSpeedBinID,vmt
2. `linkData.csv` with columns: linkID,vehType,metric,unit,value
   contains link metrics that are aggregated over the whole DynusT
   simulation time window.  Metrics include: VMT, delay, signalDelay,
   and toll (if present in `VehTrajectory.dat`).  All metrics are
   available by vehicle type.
3. `numberOfTrips.csv` contains the total number of trips in the
   roster by vehicle type, after the trips with IDs in the
   `elecIDs.txt` have been removed.
