AERMET/README.md, before:

# Pipeline for preparing surface and upper air data for AERMOD

This directory contains the scripts to use EPA's AERMET, AERSURFACE,
and AERMINUTE tools to prepare the upper air profile and surface wind
data necessary for running AERMOD.

### Installation
1. Install unzip, gfortran, and python3
```bash
$ sudo apt install unzip gfortran python3 python3-pip
```
2. Download and compile AERMET
```bash
$ wget --no-check-certificate https://gaftp.epa.gov/Air/aqmg/SCRAM/models/met/aermet/aermet_source.zip
$ unzip -d AERMET aermet_source.zip
$ cd AERMET
$ gfortran -fbounds-check -Wuninitialized -O2 -c mod_AsosCommDates.for
$ gfortran -fbounds-check -Wuninitialized -O2 -c *.FOR
$ gfortran -O2 -o ../aermet *.o
```
3. Download and compile AERSURFACE
```bash
$ wget --no-check-certificate https://gaftp.epa.gov/Air/aqmg/SCRAM/models/related/aersurface/aersurface_source.zip
$ unzip aersurface_source.zip
$ cd aersurface_source_code
$ export COMPILE_FLAGS="-fbounds-check -Wuninitialized -O2"
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_StartVars.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_Constants.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_UserParams.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_FileUnits.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_ErrorHandling.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_Geographic.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_ProcCtrlFile.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_LandCoverParams.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_TiffTags.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_TiffParams.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_InitTiffParams.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_GetData.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_AvgParams.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_SfcChars.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS aersurface.f
$ gfortran -o ../aersurface -O2 *.o
```
4. Download and compile AERMINUTE
```bash
$ wget --no-check-certificate https://gaftp.epa.gov/Air/aqmg/SCRAM/models/met/aerminute/aerminute_15272.zip
$ unzip -d AERMINUTE aerminute_15272.zip
$ cd AERMINUTE
$ fortran -O2 -o ../aerminute aerminute_15272.for
```
5. Install the required Python libraries
```bash
$ pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```
6. Download the NLCD data from https://mrlc.gov/viewer by drawing a
   rectangle over the study area and selecting the 2016 Tree Canopy,
   Land Cover, and Impervious datasets.  When you receive email with
   the download link, download the zip archive
   (e.g. NLCD_m7XNYdavHDHGq4P0NPji.zip).

### Running the pipeline

The bash script `runPipeline.sh` requires 5 command line arguments:
year, month, latitude, longitude, and the path to the downloaded NLCD zip archive
.  For example:
```bash
$ bash runPipeline.sh 2018 7 38.9996681 -77.0449321 ~/Downloads/NLCD_m7XNYdavHDHGq4P0NPji.zip
```
If successful, it generates 4 outputs:
- bestSurfElev.txt contains the elevation above sea level in
  meters of the best match surface weather station
- bestUpperWBAN.txt contains the WBAN of the best match upper air
  monitoring weather station
- AERMETSURFACE.SFC is the surface data input for AERMOD
- AERMETUPPER.PFL is the upper air profile input for AERMOD

Commit message:

output the surface station ID as well

AERMET/README.md, after:

# Pipeline for preparing surface and upper air data for AERMOD

This directory contains the scripts to use EPA's AERMET, AERSURFACE,
and AERMINUTE tools to prepare the upper air profile and surface wind
data necessary for running AERMOD.

### Installation
1. Install unzip, gfortran, and python3
```bash
$ sudo apt install unzip gfortran python3 python3-pip
```
2. Download and compile AERMET
```bash
$ wget --no-check-certificate https://gaftp.epa.gov/Air/aqmg/SCRAM/models/met/aermet/aermet_source.zip
$ unzip -d AERMET aermet_source.zip
$ cd AERMET
$ gfortran -fbounds-check -Wuninitialized -O2 -c mod_AsosCommDates.for
$ gfortran -fbounds-check -Wuninitialized -O2 -c *.FOR
$ gfortran -O2 -o ../aermet *.o
```
3. Download and compile AERSURFACE
```bash
$ wget --no-check-certificate https://gaftp.epa.gov/Air/aqmg/SCRAM/models/related/aersurface/aersurface_source.zip
$ unzip aersurface_source.zip
$ cd aersurface_source_code
$ export COMPILE_FLAGS="-fbounds-check -Wuninitialized -O2"
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_StartVars.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_Constants.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_UserParams.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_FileUnits.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_ErrorHandling.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_Geographic.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_ProcCtrlFile.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_LandCoverParams.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_TiffTags.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_TiffParams.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_InitTiffParams.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_GetData.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_AvgParams.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS mod_SfcChars.f
$ gfortran -c $COMPILE_FLAGS aersurface.f
$ gfortran -o ../aersurface -O2 *.o
```
4. Download and compile AERMINUTE
```bash
$ wget --no-check-certificate https://gaftp.epa.gov/Air/aqmg/SCRAM/models/met/aerminute/aerminute_15272.zip
$ unzip -d AERMINUTE aerminute_15272.zip
$ cd AERMINUTE
$ fortran -O2 -o ../aerminute aerminute_15272.for
```
5. Install the required Python libraries
```bash
$ pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```
6. Download the National Land Cover Database (NLCD) data from
   https://mrlc.gov/viewer using the data download tool (clicking on
   an icon that looks like a down pointing arrow in a circle) to draw
   a rectangle bigger than the study area and selecting the 2016 Tree
   Canopy, Land Cover, and Impervious datasets.  You receive an email
   with the download link for the zip archive with all of the data
   (e.g. NLCD_m7XNYdavHDHGq4P0NPji.zip).

### Running the pipeline

The bash script `runPipeline.sh` requires 5 command line arguments:
year, month, latitude, longitude, and the path to the downloaded NLCD
zip archive
.  For example:
```bash
$ bash runPipeline.sh 2018 7 38.9996681 -77.0449321 ~/Downloads/NLCD_m7XNYdavHDHGq4P0NPji.zip
```
If successful, it generates 4 outputs:
- bestSurfElev.txt contains the elevation above sea level in
  meters of the best match surface weather station
- bestUpperStation.txt contains the WBAN-WMO of the best match upper air
  monitoring weather station
- bestSurfaceStation.txt with the USAF-WBAN of the best match surface
  station
- AERMETSURFACE.SFC is the surface data input for AERMOD
- AERMETUPPER.PFL is the upper air profile input for AERMOD
